Component auctions (#1)
MattMenke2/turtledove: FLEDGE.md

                        'https://www.another-buyer.com': 200,
                        '*': 150,
                        ...},
  'componentAuctions': [
    {'seller': 'https://www.some-other-ssp.com',
      ...},
    ...
  ]
};
const auctionResultPromise = navigator.runAdAuction(myAuctionConfig);
```

> This will cause the browser to execute the appropriate bidding and auction logic inside a collection of dedicated worklets associated with the buyer and seller domains.  The `auctionSignals`, `sellerSignals`, and `perBuyerSignals` values will be passed as arguments to the appropriate functions that run inside those worklets — the `auctionSignals` are made available to everyone, while the other signals are given only to one party. `componentAuctions` optionally contains additional auction configurations whose results are fed into the main auction. Auctions listed in `componentAuctions` fields will referred to as `component auctions`. Component auctions may not have their own component auctions.

Reviewer: I feel like we should have a place where we discuss component auctions a bit more in-depth.  Perhaps we could take these three new sentences and move them into a new paragraph and add a introductory sentence or two like:
```suggestion
This will cause the browser to execute the appropriate bidding and auction logic inside a collection of dedicated worklets associated with the buyer and seller domains. The `auctionSignals`, `sellerSignals`, and `perBuyerSignals` values will be passed as arguments to the appropriate functions that run inside those worklets — the `auctionSignals` are made available to everyone, while the other signals are given only to one party.

In some cases multiple sellers may want to individually run their own auctions (called `component auctions`), and then have their winning bids participate in a final auction.  To facilitate these `component auctions`, each individual seller's auction configuration in this situation is passed in to the final auction's configuration in the `componentAuctions` value.  Component auctions may not have their own component auctions. How bids are passed from the `component auctions` to the final auction is further described in [2.4 Scoring Bids in Component Auctions](#24-scoring-bids-in-component-auctions) below.
```

Author: Hrm...Your suggestion makes it sound to me like the `compenentAuctions` value lists to final auction's configuration, but it's the other way around.  I've followed this idea, but rephrased a bit.

Also, right now I always use "top-most" for the main auction, in text and in variable names, though it is a little more awkward here than elsewhere.  Happy to rename, just not sure about a better name.  "Main" has a bit of an "other auctions are minor" implication, "final" has a time implication that may not be true (we can run the auctions mostly at the same time, apart from passing on winners in intermediate auctions).

                        'https://www.another-buyer.com': 200,
                        '*': 150,
                        ...},
  'componentAuctions': [
    {'seller': 'https://www.some-other-ssp.com',
      ...},
    ...
  ]
};
const auctionResultPromise = navigator.runAdAuction(myAuctionConfig);
```

This will cause the browser to execute the appropriate bidding and auction logic inside a collection of dedicated worklets associated with the buyer and seller domains.  The `auctionSignals`, `sellerSignals`, and `perBuyerSignals` values will be passed as arguments to the appropriate functions that run inside those worklets — the `auctionSignals` are made available to everyone, while the other signals are given only to one party.

> In some cases, one or more intermediary SSPs may want to run their own auction and send the winner up to another auction. To facilitate these `component auctions`, `componentAuctions` can optionally contain additional auction configurations for additional sellers.  The winning bid of each of these `component auctions` will be passed to the top-most` auction.  How bids are scored in this case is further described in [2.4 Scoring Bids in Component Auctions](#24-scoring-bids-in-component-auctions).

Reviewer: I'm not sure we want to call them "intermediary SSPs" as I think they're just normal SSPs, there's just multiple of them.
I'm also removing what looks like a spurious back-quote.
I'm also changing back-quotes on "component auctions" to normal quotes as this isn't code and might be a little confusing when we put `component auctions` adjacent `componentAuctions`.
```suggestion
In some cases, multiple SSPs may want to run their own auction and send the winner up to another auction. To facilitate these "component auctions", `componentAuctions` can optionally contain additional auction configurations for each seller's "component auction".  The winning bid of each of these "component auctions" will be passed to the top-most auction.  How bids are scored in this case is further described in [2.4 Scoring Bids in Component Auctions](#24-scoring-bids-in-component-auctions).
```

>                         'https://www.another-buyer.com': 200,

Reviewer: Can we delete the "additionalBids" line (line 144) above as it's superseded by this PR?  Likewise with the "additionalBids" paragraph below (new line 179)?

Author: Done.

Note that `scoreAd()` does not have any way to _store_ information for use later on a different page.  In particular, if the ad scoring logic on day 1 observes a bid from a particular interest group, and then on day 2 the browser interest group membership expires, there is no way for the ad scoring logic on day 3 to "remember" the pre-expiration membership information.

> #### 2.4 Component Auctions

Reviewer: Might want to clarify that this section refers to sellers/scoring in component auctions, perhaps:
```suggestion
#### 2.4 Scoring Bids in Component Auctions
```

> Seller worklets running in component auctions behave a little differently.  They still expose a scoreAd() funcion to score each bid from the component auction's buyers, however all of its arguments come from the component auction, including `auctionConfig`. `browserSignals` has an additional `topLevelSeller` field, which contains the seller of the top-level auction. Instead of returning just a bid, `scoreAd()` returns an object with the following fields:

Reviewer: Hmm, I wonder if we're going to need a `perBuyerSignals` sort of thing for the final auction to pass info to each component auction.  WDYT?

Author: I don't think that's needed - the subauctions can provide anything the top-level SSP wants to pass in to BidderWorklets, as well as the inner SSP.  In general, I think we should try not to add things unless there's no other way to reasonably do something.

Reviewer: So if the top-level seller wants to pass in something to an inner SSP, they should pass it in the inner SSP's auction config?  Are auction configs allowed to contain arbitrary fields?

Author: No, they can pass it in via the component auction's perBuyerSignals array.  They need to have an agreement on the format of this data, anyways, both with the bidder and the SSP running the component auction.

Reviewer: > they can pass it in via the component auction's perBuyerSignals array.

The component auction's `perBuyerSignals` array communicates information from the component auction's seller to the component auction's bidders.  I'm wondering about how the top-level seller communicates information to component auctions' sellers.

Author: perBuyerSignals provides data in the context of the page, where both SSPs may or may not be running scripts, to the worklet.  The SSPs can coordinate in the context of the page to provide all needed information to perBuyerSignals.  I don't think we need to provide additional mechanisms to pass data via the AuctionConfig to bidder worklets.

There are also a bunch of variations here - maybe the publisher wants to pass different data to the same buyers with different sellers in component auctions, maybe another SSP has multiple subauctions, and the top-level SSP wants different information to different sub auctions with the same seller.  Maybe it wants an 'auctionSignals' that is also sent to all buyers and sellers in component auctions.  Maybe it wants a 'sellerSignals' that's also sent to all sellers in component auctions (or maybe it was a 'perSellerSignals' that lets it specify data to each seller).

I think that since there's already a way to do this (coordinate on the page with nested SSPs to pass data via the component auction) that this isn't needed, and it blows up the size of the API, the number of needed tests, and the number of things that can break independently of each other.  Web platform APIs should try to be as simple as possible, and I just don't think all this stuff is needed.

* ad: Arbitrary metadata to pass to the top-level seller.
* desirability: Numeric score of the bid. Must be positive or the ad will be rejected.

> Once all the bids passed to the component auction's seller worklet have been scored, the bid with the highest score will be passed to the top-level seller worklet. In the case of a tie, one of the highest scoring bids will be chosen randomly. For that bid, the top-level seller's worklet is passed the `ad` value from the component auction seller worklet, and there is an an additional `componentSeller` field in the `browserSignals`, which has the seller for the component auction. All other values are the same as if the bid had come from an interset group participating directly in the top-level auction.

Reviewer: "that bid" is a bit confusing as to whether it refers to just the bids in ties or simply the highest scoring bid.

Author: Reordered sentences

> Once all the bids passed to the component auction's seller worklet have been scored, the bid with the highest score will be passed to the top-level seller worklet. In the case of a tie, one of the highest scoring bids will be chosen randomly. For that bid, the top-level seller's worklet is passed the `ad` value from the component auction seller worklet, and there is an an additional `componentSeller` field in the `browserSignals`, which has the seller for the component auction. All other values are the same as if the bid had come from an interset group participating directly in the top-level auction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all the bids passed to the component auction's seller worklet have been scored, the bid with the highest score will be passed to the top-level seller worklet. In the case of a tie, one of the highest scoring bids will be chosen randomly. For that bid, the top-level seller's worklet is passed the `ad` value from the component auction seller worklet, and there is an an additional `componentSeller` field in the `browserSignals`, which has the seller for the component auction. All other values are the same as if the bid had come from an interest group participating directly in the top-level auction.
```

Note that `scoreAd()` does not have any way to _store_ information for use later on a different page.  In particular, if the ad scoring logic on day 1 observes a bid from a particular interest group, and then on day 2 the browser interest group membership expires, there is no way for the ad scoring logic on day 3 to "remember" the pre-expiration membership information.

#### 2.4 Scoring Bids in Component Auctions

> Seller worklets running in component auctions behave a little differently.  They still expose a scoreAd() funcion to score each bid from the component auction's buyers, however all of its arguments come from the component auction, including `auctionConfig`. `browserSignals` has an additional `topLevelSeller` field, which contains the seller of the top-level auction. Instead of returning just a bid, `scoreAd()` returns an object with the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Seller worklets running in component auctions behave a little differently.  They still expose a scoreAd() function to score each bid from the component auction's buyers, however all of its arguments come from the component auction, including `auctionConfig`. `browserSignals` has an additional `topLevelSeller` field, which contains the seller of the top-level auction. Instead of returning just a bid, `scoreAd()` returns an object with the following fields:
```

Note that `scoreAd()` does not have any way to _store_ information for use later on a different page.  In particular, if the ad scoring logic on day 1 observes a bid from a particular interest group, and then on day 2 the browser interest group membership expires, there is no way for the ad scoring logic on day 3 to "remember" the pre-expiration membership information.

#### 2.4 Component Auctions

Seller worklets running in component auctions behave a little differently.  They still expose a scoreAd() funcion to score each bid from the component auction's buyers, however all of its arguments come from the component auction, including `auctionConfig`. `browserSignals` has an additional `topLevelSeller` field, which contains the seller of the top-level auction. Instead of returning just a bid, `scoreAd()` returns an object with the following fields:

> * ad: Arbitrary metada to pass to the top-level seller.

Reviewer: metada->metadata

Author: Done

*   auctionSignals: As provided by the seller in the call to `runAdAuction()`.  This is the opportunity for the seller to provide information about the page context (ad size, publisher ID, etc), the type of auction (first-price vs second-price), and so on.
*   perBuyerSignals: The value for _this specific buyer_ as taken from the auction config passed to `runAdAuction()`.  This can include contextual signals about the page that come from the buyer's server, if the seller is an SSP which performs a real-time bidding call to buyer servers and pipes the response back, or if the publisher page contacts the buyer's server directly.  If so, the buyer may wish to check a cryptographic signature of those signals inside `generateBid()` as protection against tampering.
*   trustedBiddingSignals: An object whose keys are the `trustedBiddingSignalsKeys` for the interest group, and whose values are those returned in the `trustedBiddingSignals` request.

> *   browserSignals: An object constructed by the browser, containing information that the browser knows, and which the buyer's auction script might want to use or verify.  This can include information about both the context (e.g. the true hostname of the current page, which the seller could otherwise lie about) and about the interest group itself (e.g. times when it previously won the auction, to allow on-device frequency capping). `topLevelSeller` is only present if the worklet is running at part of a component auction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   browserSignals: An object constructed by the browser, containing information that the browser knows, and which the buyer's auction script might want to use or verify.  This can include information about both the context (e.g. the true hostname of the current page, which the seller could otherwise lie about) and about the interest group itself (e.g. times when it previously won the auction, to allow on-device frequency capping). `topLevelSeller` is only present if the worklet is running as part of a component auction.
```

    ```
    { 'topWindowHostname': 'www.example-publisher.com',
      'seller': 'https://www.example-ssp.com',

>       `topLevelSeller`: 'https://www.some-other-ssp.com',

Reviewer: A little renaming to make it less confusing/reversed with the example auction config above where example-ssp is the top-level seller and some-other-ssp is the component seller.
```suggestion
      `topLevelSeller`: 'https://www.another-ssp.com',
```

The output of `generateBid()` contains four fields:

*   ad: Arbitrary metadata about the ad which this interest group wants to show.  The seller uses this information in its auction and decision logic.
*   bid: A numerical bid that will enter the auction.  The seller must be in a position to compare bids from different buyers, therefore bids must be in some seller-chosen unit (e.g. "USD per thousand").  If the bid is zero or negative, then this interest group will not participate in the seller's auction at all.  With this mechanism, the buyer can implement any advertiser rules for where their ads may or may not appear.
*   render: A URL, or a list of URLs, which will be rendered to display the creative if this bid wins the auction.  (See "Ads Composed of Multiple Pieces" below.)
*   adComponents: An optional list of up to 20 adComponent strings from the InterestGroup's adComponents field. Each value must match an adComponent renderUrl exactly. This field must not be present if the InterestGroup has no adComponent field. It is valid for this field not to be present even when adComponents is present.

> For auctions with component auctions, an interest group's worklet may bids in all auctions for which it qualifies, though the `bidCount` value passed to future auctions will only be incremented by one for participation in that auction as a whole.

Reviewer: nit: May want to bring this up to just below the `browserSignals` example so it's closer to the `generateBid()` inputs rather than down here next to the outputs.  Though I'm not sure how to do that without triggering another bullet dot.

Author: Done.

#### 5.1 Seller Reporting on Render

> The seller's JavaScript (i.e. the same script, loaded from `decisionLogicUrl`, that provided the `scoreAd()` function) can also expose a `reportResult()` function, which is called for both top-level seller worklets and the component auction worklet with the winning bid, if applicable:

Reviewer: WDYT of this rewording?  I wanted to clarify that not all top-level seller worklets get their `reportResult()` called, just the winning bid ones.
```suggestion
The seller's JavaScript (i.e. the same script, loaded from `decisionLogicUrl`, that provided the `scoreAd()` function) can also expose a `reportResult()` function, which is called for both top-level and component auction seller worklets with winning bids, if applicable:
```

Author: I'm not following.  There's only one top-level seller worklet.  I've made it singular, and beefed up the comment a bit, but not sure about the rest.  Also pretty sure bid should be singular, since only one bid wins an auction.

The arguments to this function are:

*   auctionConfig: The auction configuration object passed to `navigator.runAdAuction()`
*   browserSignals: An object constructed by the browser, containing information it knows about what happened in the auction. `topLevelSeller` is only present for component auctions, while `componentSeller` is only present for top-level auctions when the winner came from a component auction:

    ```
    { 'topWindowHostname': 'www.example-publisher.com',
      `topLevelSeller`: 'https://www.some-other-ssp.com',

>       `componentSeller`: 'https://www.example-ssp.com',

Reviewer: Swapping to match example auction config above.
```suggestion
      `topLevelSeller`: 'https://www.example-ssp.com',
      `componentSeller`: 'https://www.some-other-ssp.com',
```
